President Obama:
This week, I went to
Memphis, Tennessee,
where I spoke to the
graduating class of
Booker T. Washington
High School.
Graduations are always
happy occasions.
But this commencement was
especially hopeful --
because of just how much the kids at Booker T. Washington
High School had overcome.
This is a school in the middle
of a tough neighborhood in
South Memphis.
There's a lot of crime.
There's a lot of poverty.
And just a few years ago, only
about half of the students at
the school graduated.
Just a handful went off
to college each year.
But folks came together
to change all that.
Under the leadership of a
dynamic principal and devoted
teachers, they started special
academies for ninth graders --
because they found that that's
when a lot of kids were lost.
They made it possible for
students to take AP classes or
vocational courses.
Most importantly, they didn't
just change the curriculum;
they created a culture that
prizes hard work and discipline,
and that shows every
student that they matter.
Today, four out of five students
at the school earn a diploma.
70% continue their education,
many the first in their families
to go to college.
So Booker T. Washington High
School is no longer a story
about what's gone
wrong in education.
It's a story about how
we can set it right.
We need to encourage this kind
of change all across America.
We need to reward the reforms
that are driven not by
Washington, but by principals
and teachers and parents.
That's how we'll make
progress in education --
not from the top down,
but from the bottom up.
And that's the guiding principle
of the Race to the Top
competition my administration
started two years ago.
The idea is simple: if states
show that they're serious about
reform, we'll show
them the money.
And it's already making
a difference throughout
the country.
In Tennessee, where
I met those students,
they've launched an innovative
residency program so that new
teachers can be mentored
by veteran educators.
In Oregon, Michigan,
and elsewhere,
grants are supporting the work
of teachers who are lengthening
the school day, offering
more specialized classes,
and making the changes necessary
to improve struggling schools.
Our challenge now is to allow
all 50 states to benefit from
the success of Race to the Top.
We need to promote reform that
gets results while encouraging
communities to figure out
what's best for their kids.
That why it's so important that
Congress replace No Child Left
Behind this year -- so
schools have that flexibility.
Reform just can't wait.
And if anyone doubts this,
they ought to head to Booker T.
Washington High.
They ought to meet the inspiring
young people who overcame so
much, and worked so hard,
to earn their diplomas --
in a school that believed in
their promise and gave them the
opportunity to succeed.
We need to give every child
in America that chance.
That's why education
reform matters.
Thanks for listening,
and have a great weekend.